When you launch your EC2 instances you can choose to put them in a placement group and what happens
is when you launch multiple EC2 instances normally they will just get placed on the underlying
physical hardware in a way that you have no control over.
So you don't really know if let's say you launch two instances that are part of some kind of application
cluster.
You don't know whether they're sitting on the same underlying host the same physical server or whether
they're spread across different servers.
Now because of application clustering you might want to control that.
You might also want to make sure that your instances are placed very close together.
So they have better node to node communication.
So that's what placement groups are.
Now there's three different types.
We have cluster, partition, and spread. So with the cluster placement group.
This is where your instances are placed very close together inside a single availability zone.
And this means that you get really low latency and no time and no communication is low latency and fast
because they're close together.
So think about tightly coupled applications and think about high performance computing or HPC.
applications.
I know in the SAA-C02 version of the exam high performance computing is starting to show up now
at this stage while I'm recording this the beta has completed and the actual final release of the exam
is scheduled for a couple of months time because it's January 2020 at the moment. By the time you watch
this
that might not be the case you might already be studying for the SAA-C02 and if so make sure you understand
high performance computing and we'll talk a bit more about the different types of adapter that you use
for high performance computing as well shortly.
So we then have the partition placement group and this is where your instances are spread using logical
partitions so that you know that one group of instances does not share the same underlying hardware
as another group.
So you can have multiple instances or one host and multiple instances on a number.
Now I'll show you some diagrams shortly so that all this makes a bit more sense.
We then have a spread placement group and what this means is that you have your instances spread across
distinct underlying hardware.
Again the diagrams will make this easier.
So let's go through and have a look at some of these diagrams.
So this is what a cluster placement group looks like and you see that there's multiple EC2 instances
within a single availability zone and we know that these instances are going to be placed very close
together so on hardware that's very physically close.
And that means that you get better inter-node communications so good for high performance computing good
for tightly coupled applications and good to make sure you have that low latency and good bandwidth
between the instances.
Now you use enhanced networking and that means you're going to use an enhanced network adapter or an
ENA.
So we then have a partition placement group and here we can see that we can use multiple Availability
Zones and we have a partition here with a number of instances in it and another politician.
And we know that these partitions are going to be located on separate AWS racks.
So there's a layer of resiliency there because each rack has its own unique power sources and backup
power sources.
And obviously there's networking that's redundant as well.
So you now know that you've got a cluster here which is on in one rack and you got another cluster in
another rack and you got another cluster of instances that's in another rack and another availability
zone.
And we that have the spread placement groups.
And in this case what you can see is each instance is actually located in a separate rack.
So each of these red lines corresponds to a completely separate rack.
So Iraq you know is a sort of closet that you put your servers into when you have lots of different
servers in them and each rack is therefore going to only have one instance that's part of your application.
So there's lots of resiliency there you know that in this case you have five EC2 instances that
are part of your application and you know they're spread across five different racks and each of those
racks has its own redundant power and networking.
So lots of resiliency for your application within the AWS management console.
And I'm just gonna head over it's EC2 and you may notice that as this is a newer video the look
and feel of the EC2 console is changed a bit so we can say up here I'm actually using the new easy
to experience and you can easily switch that off if you want to.
It's not a huge difference but there's just a few enhancements now we're just going to scroll down to
placement groups and the networking and security and what we can do now is we can go in and create a
placement group and say I'm going to create myclusterPG For place placement group and I'm just gonna
choose the strategy cluster and we can choose create and then we can go back in and we can create a
spread placement group, myspreadPG
and let's just go in and also create a partition placement group.
And this is the only time that you need to specify the number of partitions.
Let's just choose two and it says the maximum number is seven.
So we've created all of those and that's really all there is to it.
And what we can do now is go to instances and launch an instance.
Now what I'm gonna do first I'm just gonna carry on as per normal and choose the Linux 2 AMI and
the T2 micro and we can see here that we can choose to place the instance into a placement group.
So let's have a look that's add to an existing placement group.
And what we can see is I can add these into my partition placement group and I can add into the spread
placement group that we created.
But as you can note there's no cluster placement group here and that's because the T2 micro cannot
go into a cluster placement group.
So there are specific requirements on what instance type you can add.
So let's just cancel out and try again.
I'm still going to choose the next two am I but let's go down and try a let's try a C5-large choose
next choose to add to a placement group.
And now we can choose to put into the cluster placement group as well.
And we're not actually going to go and launch any instances now.
I just want to show you where you go to create your placement groups and then how you can actually specify
the placement groups when you launch your instances.
So when you add to a placement group EC2 two will then automatically ensure that the policy for that
placement group and how your instances are placed on the hardware is followed.
Now let's just go back to the slides and I've got one more here for you.
And this just compares the different types of placement groups.
So we've got the cluster the spread in the Partition. So with clustered
this is about placing your instances into low latency groups within a single AZ and you use it to
get low network latency and high network throughput.
And remember you can use an enhanced networking adapter with your cluster placement group.
It's recommended that you do launch or you instances up front that you can add them later on with a
spread placement group.
Your instances are spread across underlying hardware and this reduces the risk of simultaneous instance
failure if the underlying hardware fails and that can also span across Availability Zones.
You can have a maximum of seven instances running in a spread placement group per availability zone.
We then have the partition placement group.
And in this case the instances are grouped into logical set segments called partitions and they each
use distinct hardware and you use that to control visibility ins to your instance placement.
We then have the partition placement group and in this case the instances are grouped into logical segments
called partitions and they use distinct hardware.
So you can control the visibility into your instance placement.
This reduces the likelihood of correlated failures.
So you know if multiple racks go down in the AZ then you can ensure that your application stays running
because you've spread your application across lots of different racks and lots of different underlying
hardware.
So that's it for placement groups.
Now in the exam cram at the end of the section I'm going to talk a bit more about the different adapters
that you can use with high performance computing and also for enhanced networking so the elastic network
interface the standard type of adapter the enhanced networking adapter the ENA and also the elastic
fabric adapter.